---
keywords: fastai
title: CompSci / Technical Business Panel Notes
author: Ethan Tran
toc: true
badges: false
nb_path: _notebooks/2022-12-13-CS-Tech-Buisness-Notes.ipynb
layout: notebook
---

<!--
#################################################
### THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! ###
#################################################
# file to edit: _notebooks/2022-12-13-CS-Tech-Buisness-Notes.ipynb
-->

<div class="container" id="notebook-container">
        
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h2 id="Kathyleen-Beveridge">Kathyleen Beveridge<a class="anchor-link" href="#Kathyleen-Beveridge"> </a></h2><p>1) Background:</p>
<ul>
<li>MBA, USC</li>
<li>BS in Finance, Santa Clara University</li>
<li>Switched from finance to high tech in 2005</li>
<li>Sr. Director of Commercial and Marketing Operations (Thermo Fisher Scientific)</li>
<li>Director of Commercial Excellence (Thermo Fisher Scientific)</li>
<li>Used databases and data science for predictions on when and where to sell specific products</li>
<li>Mission Statements </li>
<li>HP Inc: Create technology that makes life better for everyone, everywhere</li>
<li>Qualcomm: Investing tech that the world loves</li>
<li>Thermo Fisher Scientific: Enable our customers to make the world healthier, cleaner, and safer</li>
<li>Companies that create products, thus, their mission statements are based upon satisfying and meeting the needs of their customers</li>
</ul>
<p>2) Conclusion:</p>
<ul>
<li>Worked for companies that had a macro impact on the lives of their users/customers</li>
<li>“No matter what you choose to do…[you] can make an impact on the world.”</li>
<li>Agile Methodology:</li>
<li>Short sprints to plan out work in short increments/ in a matter of a few months.</li>
</ul>
<h2 id="Kris-Porter">Kris Porter<a class="anchor-link" href="#Kris-Porter"> </a></h2><p>1) Background:</p>
<ul>
<li>UCLA, Electrical engineering</li>
<li>Master’s in electrical engineering, Cal State LA </li>
<li>Software Engineer - SRE</li>
<li>Infrastructure Engineer</li>
<li>Research</li>
<li>Center for Embedded Networked Sensors</li>
<li>Networked Info Mechanical Systems NIMS</li>
<li>Introduced to Linux Operating System, Software Development Life Cycle</li>
</ul>
<p>2) Career:</p>
<ul>
<li>Worked with virtual servers, data collection, and automation</li>
<li>Systems Engineer at GPM (startup) </li>
<li>Infrastructure at NBC Universal, Streaming media</li>
<li>DevOps at Qualcomm - Machine learning and deep learning, used Python libraries and data to determine when to archive and delete repositories on GitLab</li>
<li>Twitter - APIs and data centers, migrating HomeTimeline to GraphQL</li>
<li>Twitter University (formal training on the company’s systems, tools, management, etc.)</li>
<li>Currently at Mystem Labs</li>
<li>Agile Methodology: </li>
<li>Group of 150 engineers that interacted and planned together through the use of meetings - developed a road map of projects. </li>
</ul>
<h2 id="Conclusion-Question:">Conclusion Question:<a class="anchor-link" href="#Conclusion-Question:"> </a></h2><p>1) What are some of the most important skills for the tech industry?</p>
<p><strong>Mr. Porter</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>“Learning how to learn” - ie. programming languages, infrastructures, etc.
Stay resilient when going into/finding work, stay confident</li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Mrs. Beveridge</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Continuous learning</li>
<li>Be adaptive</li>
<li>Have the ability to listen to requirements and translate your work into how technology can serve those needs</li>
<li>Be prepared for interviews </li>
</ul>

</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h2 id="Key-Takeaways">Key Takeaways<a class="anchor-link" href="#Key-Takeaways"> </a></h2><p>Overall, I really enjoyed the CompSci / Technical Business panel, as it was quite informative. Hearing from the perspectives of Mrs. Beveridge and Mr. Porter helped to open my eyes for a career in tech. I learned about the many types of jobs within the field of computer science, as well as the importance of working in teams; holding meetings, such as the ones we have with our Scrum Teams can help prepare us for our real-world jobs. From Mrs. Beveridge's presentation, I found it interesting that though our work may seem small in a field of many, in her own words, “No matter what you choose to do…[you] can make an impact on the world.” Mr. Porter opened up about his career working in infrastructure and deep learning at companies such as NBC Universal and Qualcomm - it was quite interesting to learn about many of his experiences. From his slides, I learned about continuous learning and that to help yourself succeed in the field of computer science, you must always be "learning how to 
learn," whether it be a new system, tool, etc. In conclusion, this panel was very interesting and I believe that I gained a lot of resourceful knowledge that I can apply and use in the classroom and beyond.</p>

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
 

