---
keywords: fastai
title: Performance Task 1
badges: true
comments: true
author: Ethan Tran
categories: [performance task, 1]
nb_path: _notebooks/2023-1-8-Performance-Task-1.ipynb
layout: notebook
---

<!--
#################################################
### THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! ###
#################################################
# file to edit: _notebooks/2023-1-8-Performance-Task-1.ipynb
-->

<div class="container" id="notebook-container">
        
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h2 id="Submission-1">Submission 1<a class="anchor-link" href="#Submission-1"> </a></h2><ul>
<li><p><a href="https://github.com/realethantran/fastpages_EthanT/issues/22">My Scoring Table (1st Comment)</a></p>
</li>
<li><p><a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1heOeGcmxqTjG4Hqf0Vi1YFUZt_Trs_CE/view">College Board Scoring Guide</a></p>
</li>
</ul>
<p><strong>My Score: 5/6</strong></p>
<p><strong>College Board's Score: 4/6</strong></p>
<h3 id="Reflection">Reflection<a class="anchor-link" href="#Reflection"> </a></h3><p><strong>Discrepancies</strong>: In terms of scoring, I had given this submission a total score of 5/6, while College Board graded it a 4/6. Both College Board and myself agreed upon a lack of managing complexity. Where I was mistaken was when I was grading the program purpose and function. For the criteria of the written portion, I had thought that the submission checked all of the boxes. College Board took a point off due to a lack of actually explaining the purpose of the program - rather the submission only explained the function.</p>
<p><strong>What my program will need</strong>: My program will need to meet all of the criteria, leaving no possibilities of mistake. This is due to the fact that even if a single point is marked off, then the entire submission will be graded a 0. For example, Submission 1 was missing the explanation of the purpose of their program and program management that was not as efficient as College Board had wanted - resulting in an F/Fail.</p>
<p><strong>Why the submission may have failed</strong>: The submission may have failed because College Board took a point off due to a lack of actually explaining the purpose of the program - rather the submission only explained the function. Additionally, the use of program management was lackluster, which also invoked a 0/1 from College Board.</p>
<h2 id="Submission-2">Submission 2<a class="anchor-link" href="#Submission-2"> </a></h2><ul>
<li><a href="https://github.com/realethantran/fastpages_EthanT/issues/22">My Scoring Table (2nd Comment)</a></li>
<li><a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1h1BDVPlYfXE5Lg1AZ8VdWJf6erT3hQ4e/view">College Board Scoring Guide</a></li>
</ul>
<p><strong>My Score: 6/6</strong></p>
<p><strong>College Board's Score: 6/6</strong></p>
<p><strong>Discrepancies</strong>: There were no differences between the score College Board gave and I gave. We each graded the submission 6/6. This made sense, as this submission followed each and every one of the requirements from the rubric.</p>
<p><strong>What my program will need</strong>: I would need to follow all of the criteria on the rubric provided by College Board just as in second submission. The submission features a lot of detail in the answers of the written portion, perhaps there was more detail than was asked for/necessary. This is good to keep in mind as I will make sure to be very precise and detailed in my answers for the actual AP Test.</p>
<p><strong>Why the submission did not fail</strong>: This submission met each and every criteria as well as additional information, leaving no door open for failure.</p>

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
 

